# Code and data for: "Trait matching without traits: using correspondence analysis to analyze the latent structure of interaction networks"

This repository contains the code and data to reproduce the analyses and figures for the following article:

> Nicvert, L., Frits, H. & Dray, F. (in prep.). Trait matching without traits: using correspondence analysis to analyze the latent structure of interaction network.

The datasets contained in the `data/` folder come from a published datasets by Dehling et al. (2021).


## Contents

-   `analyses/` contains all scripts to reproduce the analyses.
-   `R/` contains the R functions developed for this project (as a R package).
-   `RSnetwork_xxx.pdf` contains the PDF documentation of the functions written in `R/`.
-   `data/` contains the data by Dehling et al. (2021).
-   `figures/` contains the high-quality figures used in the article generated by the analyses.
-   `man/` contains the .Rd documentation for the functions written in `R/`.
-   `outputs/` contains the outputs generated during the analyses.
-   `DESCRIPTION` contains the project metadata (author, date, dependencies, etc.)
-   `NAMESPACE` contains the namespace information for the functions in the `R/` folder.
-   `LICENCE.md` contains the full licence for the R code.
-   `install_dependencies.R` is a R script to install all R libraries.

## Running analyses

This repository contains a R package `RSnetwork`. To run the analyses, first install dependencies. To mamage dependencies, this package uses [renv](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) and the same versions of the dependencies used for these analyses can be installed from the `renv.lock` file using:
```{r}
renv::restore()
```

Then, install the custom `RSnetwork` package with:
```{r}
devtools::install_local(upgrade = "never")
```

Then, you can run the analyses from the `analyses/` folder.

## Licence

The code used to perform analyses and produce figures of this project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License.

The underlying source code used generate content (contained in the R/ folder and associated to the package) is licensed under the GPL >= 2 licence.

For data licences, see the original data paper by Dehling et al. (2021).

## References

Dehling, D. M., Bender, I. M. A., Blendinger, P. G., Muñoz, M. C., Quitián, M., Saavedra, F., Santillán, V., Böhning-Gaese, K., Neuschulz, E.-L., & Schleuning, M. (2021). ANDEAN frugivory: Data on plant-bird interactions and functional traits of plant and bird species from montane forests along the Andes (Version 2, p. 187397 bytes) [dataset]. Dryad. https://doi.org/10.5061/DRYAD.WM37PVMN5

Nicvert, L., Frits, H. & Dray, F. (in prep.). Trait matching without traits: using correspondence analysis to analyze the latent structure of interaction network.
